# Writers Bloc

Allison, working on the JS130 study guide
Benjamin Perrault, pull request article or something new
HyoSung, learn in public

What is in learn in public?

[Learn in Public](https://www.swyx.io/learn-in-public/)

## Coding Career Handbook > Chapter 9: Learn in Public > Notes

### 9.1 Private vs Public

trained to learn in *private*. keep what you learned to yourself. confidential. no sharing of secrets with competitors.

Tech is a fundamentally more open industry. But suffers from the same learn in private conditioning. Most developers consume technical content without creating it themselves.

Dark Matter Developers

Dark Matter Developers network mainly consists of current or former coworkers. Job hunting requires them to start from zero every time.

Learn in public is another way.

Share what you learn as you learn it. Open source your knowledge. Build a public record of your interests and progress. Connect with people and create a community of mentors, peers, and supporters.

Job hunting changes as you know coworkers and their work for years.

Learning in public is the fastest way to learn, establish your network, and build your career.

### 9.2 Getting Started

**learning exhaust**

- Write demos, blogs, tutorials and cheatsheets
- Speak at meetups and conferences
- Ask and answer questions on Stack Overflow or Reddit
- Make YouTube videos or Twitch streams
- Start a newsletter
- Draw cartoons ([people love cartoons](https://wizardzines.com/))

Make the thing you wish you had found when you were learning.

Be helpful on the internet.

Pick up what others put down.

Use intrinsic drive instead of relying on external motivation.

### 9.3 But I'm Scared

Wear your noobyness on your sleeve.

Egoless programming

Get really good at recovering from being wrong.

### 9.4 Teach to Learn

"If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough." ~ Albert Einstein

Teaching is the best way to learn in public. You only truly know something when you've tried teaching it to others.

Probably the most important skill in teaching is learning to talk while you code.

### 9.5 Mentors, Mentees, and Becoming an Expert

Experts notice genuine learners.

Again, pick up what they put down.

Learn in public.

### 9.6 Appendix: Why It Works

#### Empirical Foundation

Studied the careers of dozens of successful developers and heard from hundreds since [writing the original essay](https://www.swyx.io/learn-in-public/)

### Theoretical Foundation

- The 1% Rule: “Only 1% of the users of a website add content, while the other 99% of the participants only lurk.” You stand out simply by showing up.

- Cunningham’s Law: “The best way to get the right answer on the Internet is not to ask a question; it’s to post the wrong answer.” Being publicly wrong attracts teachers, as long as you don’t do it in such high quantity that people give up on you altogether. Conversely, once you’ve gotten something wrong in public, you never forget it.

- Positive Reinforcement: Building in a social feedback mechanism to your learning encourages more learning. As you build a track record and embark on more ambitious projects with implicit future promise, your public activity becomes a Commitment Device.

- Availability Bias: People confuse “first to mind” with “the best”. But it doesn’t matter — being “first to mind” on a topic means getting more questions, which gives the inputs needed to become the best. As Nathan Barry observed, Chris Coyier didn’t start out as a CSS expert, but by writing CSS Tricks for a decade, he became one. This bias is self-reinforcing because it is self-fulfilling.

- Bloom’s Taxonomy is an educational psychology model which describes modes of learning engagement — the lowest being basic recall. Learning in Public forces you toward the higher modes of learning, including applying, analyzing, evaluating, and creating.

- Inbound Marketing: Hubspot upended the marketing world by proving you didn’t have to go out in front of people to sell. Instead, you can draw them to you by making clear who you are and what you do, offering valuable content upfront and leaning on the persuasive power of Reciprocity and Liking.

- Productizing Yourself: By creating learning exhaust, you can teach people and make friends in your sleep. This disconnects your networking, income, and general Luck Surface Area (Chapter 44) from your time. Don’t end the week with Nothing. This is Portable Personal Capital that compounds over time and that you can take with you from company to company.”

### 9.7 Appendix: Intellectual History

End
